# Learning EIP191 essentials

> This ERC proposes a specification about how to handle signed data in Ethereum contracts.

## Contents

1. [Motivation](#motivation)
1. [Specification](#specification)

## Motivation

> Several multisignature wallet implementations have been created which accepts presigned transactions. A presigned transaction is a chunk of binary signed_data, along with signature (r, s and v). The interpretation of the signed_data has not been specified, leading to several problems:

1. Standard Ethereum transactions can be submitted as signed_data. An Ethereum transaction can be unpacked, into the following components: RLP<nonce, gasPrice, startGas, to, value, data> (hereby called RLPdata), r, s and v. If there are no syntactical constraints on signed_data, this means that RLPdata can be used as a syntactically valid presigned transaction.

1. Users A, B and C have the 2/3-wallet X
1. Users A, B and D have the 2/3-wallet Y
1. User A and B submit presigned transactions to X.
1. Attacker can now reuse their presigned transactions to X, and submit to Y.

## Specification

> We propose the following format for signed_data

```
0x19 <1 byte version> <version specific data> <data to sign>.
```

> Version 0 has <20 byte address> for the version specific data, and the address is the intended validator. In the case of a Multisig wallet, that is the wallet's own address .

> The initial `0x19` byte is intended to ensure that the signed_data is not valid `RLP(Recursive Length Prefix)`

> For a single byte whose value is in the [0x00, 0x7f] range, that byte is its own RLP encoding.

> That means that any signed_data cannot be one RLP-structure, but a 1-byte RLP payload followed by something else. Thus, **any ERC-191 signed_data can never be an Ethereum transaction**.

> Additionally, 0x19 has been chosen because since ethereum/go-ethereum#2940 , **the following is prepended before hashing in personal_sign**:

```
"\x19Ethereum Signed Message:\n" + len(message).
```

> Using `0x19` thus makes it possible to extend the scheme by defining a version `0x45` (E) to handle these kinds of signatures.

- EIP191(data with intended validator): `0x00`
- EIP712(structured data): `0x01`
- EIP191(personal_sign message): `0x45`

## Example

> The following snippet has been written in Solidity 0.5.0.

```solidity
function submitTransactionPreSigned(address destination, uint value, bytes data, uint nonce, uint8 v, bytes32 r, bytes32 s)
    public
    returns (bytes32 transactionHash)
{
    // Arguments when calculating hash to validate
    // 1: byte(0x19) - the initial 0x19 byte
    // 2: byte(0) - the version byte
    // 3: this - the validator address
    // 4-7 : Application specific data
    transactionHash = keccak256(abi.encodePacked(byte(0x19),byte(0),address(this),destination, value, data, nonce));
    sender = ecrecover(transactionHash, v, r, s);
    // ...
}
```
