# Learning OZ ERC721

> The EIP specifies four interfaces:

1. IERC721: Core functionality required in all compliant implementation.
1. IERC721Metadata: Optional extension that adds name, symbol, and token URI, almost always included.
1. IERC721Enumerable: Optional extension that allows enumerating the tokens on chain, requires large gas overhead.
1. **IERC721Receiver: An interface that must be implemented by contracts if they want to accept tokens through safeTransferFrom**.

> OpenZeppelin Contracts provides implementations of all four interfaces:

1. ERC721: The core and metadata extensions, with a base URI mechanism.
1. ERC721Enumerable: The enumerable extension.
1. ERC721Holder: A bare bones implementation of the receiver interface.

> ERC721 is a more complex standard than ERC20, with multiple optional extensions, and is split across a number of contracts. The OpenZeppelin Contracts provide flexibility regarding how these are combined, along with custom useful extensions.

## Constructing an ERC721 Token Contract

> We’ll use ERC721 to track items in our game, which will each have their own unique attributes. Whenever one is to be awarded to a player, it will be minted and sent to them. Players are free to keep their token or trade it with other people as they see fit, as they would any other asset on the blockchain! Please note any account can call awardItem to mint items. To restrict what accounts can mint items we can add Access Control.

> Here’s what a contract for tokenized items might look like:

```solidity
// contracts/GameItem.sol
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC721/extensions/ERC721URIStorage.sol";
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/utils/Counters.sol";

contract GameItem is ERC721URIStorage {
    using Counters for Counters.Counter;
    Counters.Counter private _tokenIds;

    constructor() ERC721("GameItem", "ITM") {}

    function awardItem(address player, string memory tokenURI)
        public
        returns (uint256)
    {
        uint256 newItemId = _tokenIds.current();
        _mint(player, newItemId);
        _setTokenURI(newItemId, tokenURI);

        _tokenIds.increment();
        return newItemId;
    }
}
```

> The ERC721URIStorage contract is an implementation of ERC721 that includes the metadata standard extensions **(IERC721Metadata)** as well as a mechanism for per-token metadata. That’s where the **\_setTokenURI method comes from**: we use it to store an item’s metadata.

- ERC721URIStorage = ERC721 + ERC721Metadata

> Also note that, unlike ERC20, ERC721 lacks a decimals field, since each token is distinct and cannot be partitioned.

> New items can be created:

```js
> gameItem.awardItem(playerAddress, "https://game.example/item-id-8u5h2m.json")
Transaction successful. Transaction hash: 0x...
Events emitted:
 - Transfer(0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000, playerAddress, 7)
```

> And the owner and metadata of each item queried:

```js
> gameItem.ownerOf(7)
playerAddress
> gameItem.tokenURI(7)
"https://game.example/item-id-8u5h2m.json"
```

> This tokenURI should resolve to a JSON document that might look something like:

```json
{
  "name": "Thor's hammer",
  "description": "Mjölnir, the legendary hammer of the Norse god of thunder.",
  "image": "https://game.example/item-id-8u5h2m.png",
  "strength": 20
}
```

> You’ll notice that the item’s information is included in the metadata, but that information isn’t on-chain! So a game developer could change the underlying metadata, changing the rules of the game!

> If you’d like to put all **item information on-chain**, you can extend ERC721 to do so (though it will be **rather costly**) by providing **a Base64 Data URI** with the JSON schema encoded. You could also leverage IPFS to store the tokenURI information

<details>
<summary>Base64</summary>

> Base64 util allows you to **transform bytes32 data into its Base64 string** representation.

> This is specially useful to build URL-safe tokenURIs for both ERC721 or ERC1155. This library provides a clever way to serve URL-safe Data URI compliant strings to serve on-chain data structures.

> Consider this is an example to send JSON Metadata through a Base64 Data URI using an ERC721:

```solidity
// contracts/My721Token.sol
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC721/ERC721.sol";
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/utils/Strings.sol";
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/utils/Base64.sol";

contract My721Token is ERC721 {
    using Strings for uint256;

    constructor() ERC721("My721Token", "MTK") {}

    ...

    function tokenURI(uint256 tokenId)
        public
        pure
        override
        returns (string memory)
    {
        bytes memory dataURI = abi.encodePacked(
            '{',
                '"name": "My721Token #', tokenId.toString(), '"',
                // Replace with extra ERC721 Metadata properties
            '}'
        );

        return string(
            abi.encodePacked(
                "data:application/json;base64,",
                Base64.encode(dataURI)
            )
        );
    }
}
```

</details>

## Preset ERC721 contract

> A preset ERC721 is available, ERC721PresetMinterPauserAutoId. It is preset to allow for token minting (create) with token ID and URI auto generation, stop all token transfers (pause) and allow holders to burn (destroy) their tokens. The contract uses Access Control to control access to the minting and pausing functionality. The account that deploys the contract will be granted the minter and pauser roles, as well as the default admin role.

> This contract is ready to deploy without having to write any Solidity code. It can be used as-is for quick prototyping and testing, but is also suitable for production environments.